AI #1785: Add Invoice Detail and Billing Period datasets (#1900)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/datasets/billing_period/columns/billingperiodcreated.md

# Billing Period Created

> Billing Period Created is the timestamp when the [Billing Period](#datasets.billingperiod) record was first created. This timestamp facilitates auditability of the charge and invoice lifecycle, allowing the FinOps practitioner to distinguish between the time of service consumption and the time of financial record generation.

Reviewer: In enterprise accounting, "BillingPeriod" traditionally refers to the accounting period when costs are recognized (per GAAP accrual principles), not when invoices are issued. Using BillingPeriod to represent invoice period may break existing AWS CUR customer queries that rely on it for financial close processes

Reviewer 2: Building on this - I believe the billing period as presented is strictly related to the time-period in which this the invoicing cycle is occurring. 

It is **not** related to the chargePeriods that the invoice itself contains. 

Ex: 
My February invoice will have a credit for a correction related to a prior month's invoice. 
- Invoice BillingPeriod; Feb 1 - Mar 1
  - Feb charge period lines
  - Jan charge period credit

Reviewer 2: Between this comment from @pydi-aws and previous review from @ljadvey, perhaps there is ambiguity in the billing period column definitions as to the datetime boundaries and status of the invoicing cycle, and how chargeperiods are independent of this concept. That said, charge periods are not a dimension of an invoice itself, but the underlying charge records. Maybe this clarification ends up in supporting docs.

Author: Discussed at length in Feb 23 Maintainers meeting, where @pydi-aws was able to surface his concerns.  

We agreed that the Billing Period is, and will remain, tied at the hip to Invoice ID: it represents the timeframe stated on the issued invoice.  Billing Period reflects, and will continue to reflect, the timeframe in which the correction was _performed_, not the timeframe to which the correction _refers_.

There are two ways in which to fetch that latter timeframe:

* Through the Charge Period, as stated in Cost and Usage.
* Through the `ReferenceInvoiceId` column as proposed in this PR, which will be used in the case of adjustments; from there, the original Billing Period can be inferred.

Further concerns about corrections should be carried over to PR #1501, where @ijurica is working on corrections.  In that work, we may consider being more explicit about the connection between InvoiceId and BillingPeriodStart/End. (We may already have something like this.)

For now: **no change to this PR**.  Will leave this open for visibility, but I will close in the coming days.

Author: Reviewed and aligned in Feb 24 TF-1.  Resolving.

## Requirements

> BillingPeriodCreated adheres to the following requirements:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
BillingPeriodCreated MUST adhere to the following requirements:
```

# Billing Period Created

> Billing Period Created is the timestamp when the [Billing Period](#datasets.billingperiod) record was first created. This timestamp facilitates auditiability of the charge and invoice lifecycle, allowing the FinOps practitioner to distinguish betwee the time between the time of service consumption and the time of financial record generation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Billing Period Created is the timestamp when the [Billing Period](#datasets.billingperiod) record was first created. This timestamp facilitates auditability of the charge and invoice lifecycle, allowing the FinOps practitioner to distinguish between the time of service consumption and the time of financial record generation.
```
